Paper 1  
Q.1 
a.How to measure carbon footprint of the company?  
ANS: There is no standard definition of carbon footprint but it is the impact of 
carbon dioxide output over the planet. In some organizations, carbon footprint 
means the sourcing (raw) material,  manufacturing, distribution 
(transportation), use, disposal, all these CO 2 generation factors will be 
accumulated and calculated.  
Steps to measure carbon footprint are:  
(i) Define what is included in your carbon footprint.  
(ii) Set your baseline.  
(iii) Track, calculate and analyze your footprint.  
(iv) Report your raises to stakeholders.  
 
b. Explain objectives of STEP program.  
Ans.  
(i) Optimizing the life cycle of electrical and electronic equipment by 
improving the supply chain.  
(ii) Closing material loops.  
(iii) Reducing contamination.  
(iv) Increase the utilization of resources and rescue the equipment.  
(v) Increase public, scientific and business knowledge.  
(vi) Develop clear policy recommendations.  
 
c. Explain campaigns  of Based Action Network . 
Ans:  
BAN is a non -profit Organization with a mission to ch ampion global 
environmental health and justice. Focusing on electronic waste and old ships, 
BAN fulfill its mission using interrelated policy, market solutions, and public 
engagement strategie s that create systemic change. BAN currently runs four 
campaigns focusing on decreasing the amount of toxins entering the  environment and protecting underdeveloped countries from serving as a toxic 
dump of the developed countries of the world.  
These campaigns are:                                                                                                                                 
(i) The e -Stewards Initiative: BAN created and manages e -Stewards, a 
certification standard for the best recycling. E -Stewards distinguish truly 
responsible recyclers from those who s imply claim to be green.  
(ii) Green ship recycling: BAN advocates for safe and clean recycling of old 
ships, such as the cargo ships that once transported us our goods or the retired 
US Navy vessels that protected the oceans.  
(iii) Basel Advocacy: BAN cont inually advocates for just policies with their 
namesake, the United Nations 1989 Basel Convention. Executive Director Jim 
Puckett is the only person to have attended every conference meeting.  
(iv) Investigative watchdog: BAN has a long and strong history o f documenting 
and raising awareness of toxic trade – from being the first to expose the public 
to e-waste export, to their ongoing exposé work.  
d. What is national computer recycling act?  
Ans:  
Computer recycling , electronic recycling  or e-waste recycling  is the disassembly 
and separation of components and raw materials of waste electronics. 
Although the procedures of re -use, donation and repair are not strictly 
recycling, these are other common sustainable ways to dispose of IT waste.In 
2009, 38% of  computers  and a quarter of total electronic waste was recycled in 
the United States, 5% and 3% up from 3 years prior respectively.[2] Since its 
inception in the early 1990s, more and more devices are recycled worldwide 
due to increased awareness and investment. Electronic recycling occurs 
primarily in order to recover valuable  rare earth metals  and precious metals , 
which are in short supply, as well as  plastics  and metals. These are resold or 
used in new devices after purification, in effect creating a  circular economy . 
Such proces ses involve specialised facilities and premises, but within the home 
or ordinary workplace, sound components of damaged or obsolete computers 
can often be reused, reducing replacement costs.Recycling is considered 
environmentally friendly because it preven ts hazardous waste, including  heavy 
metals  and carcinogens, from entering the atmosphere, landfill or waterways. 
While electronics consist a small fraction of total wast e generated, they are far 
more dangerous. There is stringent legislation designed to enforce and  encourage the sustainable disposal of appliances, the most notable being the 
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive of the  European 
Union  and the  United States  National Computer Recycling Act.  
e. W hat are WEEE directives?  
Ans:  The  Waste Elec trical and Electronic Equipment Directive  (WEEE Directive ) 
is the  European Community  Directive on  waste electrical and electronic 
equipment  (WEEE) whichbecame  European Law  in February 2003. The WEEE 
Directive sets  collection , recycling  and recovery  targets for all types 
of electrical goods . The WEEE directive sets a total of 10 categories of 
WEEE[8] for reporting purposes.  
 Large  household appliances  
 Small household appliances  
 IT and telecommunications equipment  
 Consumer equipment  
 Lighting  equipment  
 Electrical and electronic tools  
 Toys,  leisure , and  sports equipment  
 Medical devices  
 Monitoring  and control  instruments  
 Automatic dispensers  
They have modeled their own legislation. The WEEE directive places the 
responsibility of disposal of electronic and electrical equipment on the 
man ufacturers. The manufacturer has to dispose of, recycle or refurbish the 
equipment in an ecological manner. The only country to meet the WEEE 
directive law was Cyprus.  
 
f. How does china ROHS work?  
Ans.Although China takes its lumps for being a destination of  much of the 
world’s e -waste, the nation is working to get e -waste legislation in place. The  Chinese regulation is normally referred to as China RoHS. Though it is similar to 
the European Union’s RoHS, it does take a different approach. The EU’s RoHS 
lists specific categories of products. Specific products are automatically 
included in those categories unless specifically excluded. China RoHS, however, 
contains a list of included products. That list is called the Catalog.  
 
Q.2 
a.What is data De -duplicate?  
ANS: Data de -duplication is a technique used to reduce the amount of storage 
space an organization needs to save its data. In most organizations, the storage 
systems contain duplicate copies of many pieces of data. De -duplication 
eliminates the extra copies  of data by saving just one copy of the data and 
replacing the other copies with pointers that lead back to the original copy. 
Companies frequently use de -duplication in backup and disaster recovery 
applications, but it can be used to free up space in prim ary storage as well.  
Benefits of Data De -duplication are:  
(i) The primary benefit of data de -duplication is that it reduces the amount of 
disk or tape that organizations need to buy, which in turn reduces costs.  
(ii) While de -duplication can be applied to data stored on tape, the relatively 
high costs of disk storage make de -duplication a popular option for disk -based 
systems.  
(iv) Eliminating extra copies of data saves money not only on direct disk 
hardware costs but also on electricity, cooling, maintenan ce, and floor space 
etc. 
(v) De -duplication can also reduce the amount of network bandwidth required 
for backup processes.  
(vi) It speeds up the backup and recovery process.  
 
 
 
b.What is low power computer?   ANS:Electricity consumption is a factor that is v ery important when companies 
design a laptop or tablet because it determines the duration for which it can 
run on a battery (without connecting the power plug). Each and every 
component that is put in a laptop or tablet is energy efficient. Laptops also 
have various other power management features.  70-80%  of power 
consumption in a laptop is by CPU, and the rest of the components consume 
very little electricity. Laptops typically consume  20-50 Watts  of electricity that 
can be trimmed down in power saver mode s. Desktops on the other hand use 
about  60-200 Watts  of electricity. A lot of it depends on the type of screen. A 
CRT (Cathode Ray Tube) screen consumes more than LCD (Liquid Crystal 
Display) screens. LCD screens can save up to 75% of electricity over a CR T 
screen. A desktop also requires a UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) to keep it 
running during power loses which can eat a significant amount of electricity.  
 
c. Explain MAID?  
Ans.MAID (massive array of idle disks) is a storage technology in which only 
those  disk drives in active use are spinning at any given time. MAID reduces 
power consumption and prolongs the lives of the drives. A MAID, which can 
have hundreds or even thousands of individual drives, offers mass storage at a 
cost per terabyte roughly equiv alent to that of tape. MAIDtechnology is 
offered as an option to high -volume tape libraries. A MAID is usually 
constructed with low -cost Serial Advanced Technology Attachment (SATA) 
drives, which have a shorter mean time between failure (MTBF) ratings than  
more expensive drives.  When the MAID is implemented, every drive is 
periodically tested. If a driver shows signs of failure, data is tr